README.md, before:

# gulp-bump
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stevelacy/gulp-bump.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stevelacy/gulp-bump)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-bump.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-bump)

> Bump any version in any file which supports [semver](http://semver.org/) versioning

## Information

<table>
<tr>
<td>Package</td><td>gulp-bump</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Description</td>
<td>Bump any Semver version in any file
 with gulp (gulpjs.com)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Node Version</td>
<td>>= 0.9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gulp Version</td>
<td>3.x</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Usage

If you are just requiring a bump for npm, consider using [npm version](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/version)

#### Install

```bash
$ npm install gulp-bump --save
```
#### Breaking changes

`gulp-bump` v2 supports Any valid semver in any filetype.
  - v2 no longer creates the version [key] if it does not exist.

## Example

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var bump = require('gulp-bump');

// Basic usage:
// Will patch the version
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./component.json')
  .pipe(bump())
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Semantic
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./*.json')
  .pipe(bump({type:'minor'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Semantic major
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./package.yml')
  .pipe(bump({type:'major'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Set a specific version
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./*.json')
  .pipe(bump({version: '1.2.3'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Update bower, component, npm at once:
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src(['./bower.json', './component.json', './package.json'])
  .pipe(bump({type:'major'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Define the key for versioning off
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./package.json')
  .pipe(bump({key: "appversion"}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});


```
#### Bumping version and outputting different files
```js
// `fs` is used instead of require to prevent caching in watch (require caches)
var fs = require('fs');
var semver = require('semver');

var getPackageJson = function () {
  return JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./package.json', 'utf8'));
};

// bump versions on package/bower/manifest
gulp.task('bump', function () {
  // reget package
  var pkg = getPackageJson();
  // increment version
  var newVer = semver.inc(pkg.version, 'patch');

  // uses gulp-filter
  var manifestFilter = tasks.filter(['manifest.json']);
  var regularJsons = tasks.filter(['!manifest.json']);

  return gulp.src(['./bower.json', './package.json', './src/manifest.json'])
    .pipe(tasks.bump({
      version: newVer
    }))
    .pipe(manifestFilter)
    .pipe(gulp.dest('./src'))
    .pipe(manifestFilter.restore())
    .pipe(regularJsons)
    .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Run the gulp tasks
gulp.task('default', function(){
  gulp.run('bump');
});
```

####You can view more examples in the [example folder.](https://github.com/stevelacy/gulp-bump/tree/master/examples)

## Options

All options are passed to [bump-regex](https://github.com/stevelacy/bump-regex)

## Versioning
#### Versioning Used: [Semantic](http://semver.org/)
#### String, lowercase

  - MAJOR ("major") version when you make incompatible API changes
  - MINOR ("minor") version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner
  - PATCH ("patch") version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.
  - PRERELEASE ("prerelease") a pre-release version

#### Version example

    major: 1.0.0
    minor: 0.1.0
    patch: 0.0.2
    prerelease: 0.0.1-2



## LICENSE

(MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2015 Steve Lacy <me@slacy.me> slacy.me

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

:sparkles: update version semi-automatic

README.md, after:


> fork from [gulp-bump](https://github.com/stevelacy/gulp-bump) automatic change to semi-automatic
# gulp-bump
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stevelacy/gulp-bump.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stevelacy/gulp-bump)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-bump.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-bump)

> Bump any version in any file which supports [semver](http://semver.org/) versioning

## Information

<table>
<tr>
<td>Package</td><td>gulp-bump</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Description</td>
<td>Bump any Semver version in any file
 with gulp (gulpjs.com)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Node Version</td>
<td>>= 0.9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gulp Version</td>
<td>3.x</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Usage

If you are just requiring a bump for npm, consider using [npm version](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/version)

#### Install

```bash
$ npm install gulp-bump --save
```
#### Breaking changes

`gulp-bump` v2 supports Any valid semver in any filetype.
  - v2 no longer creates the version [key] if it does not exist.

## Example

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var bump = require('gulp-bump');

// Basic usage:
// Will patch the version
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./component.json')
  .pipe(bump())
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Semantic
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./*.json')
  .pipe(bump({type:'minor'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Semantic major
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./package.yml')
  .pipe(bump({type:'major'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Defined method of updating:
// Set a specific version
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./*.json')
  .pipe(bump({version: '1.2.3'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Update bower, component, npm at once:
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src(['./bower.json', './component.json', './package.json'])
  .pipe(bump({type:'major'}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Define the key for versioning off
gulp.task('bump', function(){
  gulp.src('./package.json')
  .pipe(bump({key: "appversion"}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});


```
#### Bumping version and outputting different files
```js
// `fs` is used instead of require to prevent caching in watch (require caches)
var fs = require('fs');
var semver = require('semver');

var getPackageJson = function () {
  return JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./package.json', 'utf8'));
};

// bump versions on package/bower/manifest
gulp.task('bump', function () {
  // reget package
  var pkg = getPackageJson();
  // increment version
  var newVer = semver.inc(pkg.version, 'patch');

  // uses gulp-filter
  var manifestFilter = tasks.filter(['manifest.json']);
  var regularJsons = tasks.filter(['!manifest.json']);

  return gulp.src(['./bower.json', './package.json', './src/manifest.json'])
    .pipe(tasks.bump({
      version: newVer
    }))
    .pipe(manifestFilter)
    .pipe(gulp.dest('./src'))
    .pipe(manifestFilter.restore())
    .pipe(regularJsons)
    .pipe(gulp.dest('./'));
});

// Run the gulp tasks
gulp.task('default', function(){
  gulp.run('bump');
});
```

####You can view more examples in the [example folder.](https://github.com/stevelacy/gulp-bump/tree/master/examples)

## Options

All options are passed to [bump-regex](https://github.com/stevelacy/bump-regex)

## Versioning
#### Versioning Used: [Semantic](http://semver.org/)
#### String, lowercase

  - MAJOR ("major") version when you make incompatible API changes
  - MINOR ("minor") version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner
  - PATCH ("patch") version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.
  - PRERELEASE ("prerelease") a pre-release version

#### Version example

    major: 1.0.0
    minor: 0.1.0
    patch: 0.0.2
    prerelease: 0.0.1-2



## LICENSE

(MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2015 Steve Lacy <me@slacy.me> slacy.me

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
